# Weekly-Exercise-4
Weekly Exercise 4

# 3a. What is civic technology, and how can Smart Cities benefit from it? [Write at least 300 words and properly cite (using APA, MLA, or other citation style) the sources you use.] (15 points)

Civic technology is the application of technological solutions to enhance public well-being and improve governmental services. It serves as the bridge in redefining the relationship between the government and its citizens. It is an essential framework that brings the people and governmental institutions together to solve public problems in more inclusive and efficient ways. One illustrative example of civic technology is OneBusAway. This is a mobile application that provides real-time public transit information to community members, also enabling them to advocate for change in the city of Seattle. This is an open data source sustained by community members, so that the public can have an easier way to navigate through urban transit systems effectively. By making governmental data more transparent to the public eye, it allows for the intersection of technological innovation and participatory governance, through which public matters are dealt effectively (Wood, 2016). 

Civic technology is, therefore, a very strong driving force for smart cities. Smart cities utilize information and technological capital to improve urban development and quality of life for citizens (Wilson & Chakraborty, 2019). Smart cities leverage data, sensors, artificial intelligence (AI), and machine learning technology to strengthen the vision of civic technology and raise the voices of underrepresented communities in society. It empowers ordinary citizens by providing accessible online platforms where they can voice their opinions and participate in influencing societal outcomes. Hence, marking a significant departure from traditional participation methods that relied on physical attendance or paper-based processes. Now, individuals can collaborate on ideas more coherently and share perspectives on various social platforms. For this reason, such civic tech solutions are integral in breaking down geographic barriers for the participation of diverse communities. For instance, platforms like 311 systems have enabled cities to manage constituent requests more efficiently while simultaneously giving residents a voice in identifying local problems (Ilyin, 2024).

Citations
Wilson, B., & Chakraborty, A. (2019). Planning Smart(er) Cities: The Promise of Civic Technology. Journal of Urban Technology, 1–23. https://doi.org/10.1080/10630732.2019.1631097
Stepan Ilyin. (2024, July 4). Civic Tech. Wallarm.com; Wallarm. https://www.wallarm.com/what/civic-tech
Wood, C. (2016, August 16). What is Civic Tech? Www.govtech.com. https://www.govtech.com/civic/What-is-Civic-Tech.html

